Named Tracers and Meters (#264)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/api-metrics.md

### Meter creation

New `Meter` instances can be created via a `MeterFactory` and its `getMeter`
method. This method expects two string arguments:
* `name`: This name must identify the instrumentation library (also referred
to as integration, e.g. `io.opentelemetry.contrib.mongodb`) and *not* the
instrumented library. If no name (null or empty string) is specified, a working

> default Meter instance is returned.

Reviewer: I would suggest requiring non-empty name. What benefits do we get from allowing null/empty names?

In addition, the spec should say:
  * that the implementation MAY ignore the name and return the same singleton for all calls to get() if it does not support "named" functionality (e.g. maybe the implementation is not even observability-related).
  * what should happen if a null/empty name is provided and we make required above - should the implementation throw exception (no, imo) or return a default unnamed object (yes, imo)

Author: Agreed. The RFC does not mention this explicitly, but the name is considered required and providing a default instance for an empty name is a fallback rather rather than recommended usage.

I will update the spec changes accordingly.

### Meter creation

> New `Meter` instances can be created via a `MeterFactory` and its `getMeter`

Reviewer 2: Should we have a single factory for `Tracer` and `Meter`? Perhaps call it `OpenTelemetry` or something?

Reviewer: I think it is better to keep separate, narrowly-scoped factories. I might want to swap metrics SDK for uber-go/tally but keep tracing as-is, there's no need to couple them.

method. This method expects two string arguments:

- `name` (required): This name must identify the instrumentation library (also
referred to as integration, e.g. `io.opentelemetry.contrib.mongodb`) and *not*
the instrumented library.  
In case an invalid name (null or empty string) is specified, a working
default Meter implementation as a fallback is returned rather than returning
null or throwing an exception.  

> An instrumentation library *may* also ignore this name and return a default

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An SDK *may* also ignore this name and return a default
```

Reviewer: "SDK implementation" sounds odd, don't we refer to "OpenTelemetry default implementation of OpenTelemetry API" as the SDK?

Reviewer 2: API implementation than? I just don't think instrumentation library is a right term here

Reviewer: Right, it should be "implementation library" not "instrumentation"

Author: The term "instrumentation library" is used throughout the "Named Tracers and Meters" RFC to signify the difference between the "instrumented" library (e.g. a mongodb  client) and the library providing the *actual instrumentation* for it (e.g. "io.opentelemetry.contrib.mongodb").

> "SDK implementation" sounds odd, don't we refer to "OpenTelemetry default implementation of OpenTelemetry API" as the SDK?
That surprised me. To me, any implementation of the OpenTelemetry API is an SDK.

What about "A library implementing the OpenTelemetry API ... "? That should be less confusing.

Reviewer: We have this layering:
  * instrumented code / library
  * instrumentation code / library
  * OpenTelemetry API
  * implementation library (aka SDK)

Reviewer: implementation library is the one that implements Factory and returns a Tracer/Meter.

instance for all calls, if it does not support "named" functionality (e.g. an

> implementation which is not even observability-related).

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest to add a note that the factory can return a no-op tracer if application owner configured SDK to suppress telemetry produced by this library.

### Meter creation

New `Meter` instances can be created via a `MeterFactory` and its `getMeter`
method. This method expects two string arguments:

> - `name` (required): This name must identify the instrumentation library (also

Reviewer 3: I think it would be good to split this into 2 different strings:
* integration path - `io.opentelemetry.contrib`
* instrumented library (component name) - `mongodb`

This way we can use the instrumented library name, and get rid of the `component` attribute in the Span. No need to have that set for every Span/Metric we create from this Tracer/Meter.

This may be done in a separate PR but want to hear opinions.

Reviewer 2: I agree we should do it in separate PR. This PR doesn't tell how this name will be used except to disable certain component's telemetry

Reviewer 4: Yeah, I think this PR should just implement the OTEP and not go beyond it.
